**ADAPT-VQE**

The aim of the project was to study different optimization processes through the Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) algorithm, in order to find the ground state of a physical Hamiltonian. Then, the problem of the definiton of a pre-selected ansatz state was addressed through the use of the Adaptive Derivative-Assemble Pseudo-Trotter ansatz Variational Quantum eigensolver (**Adapt-VQE**); in this approach the anstaz is created by adding one fermionic operator at a time and the parameters updated unitll a certain convergence is reached. The codes and the algorithms used were written through the Python library **Pennylane** and were run on quantum simulators.

Firtsly, this approach was used in order to study some molecular problems: the H2 and LiH molecules. The codes and the relative images are reported in folders **Molecular_H**. The VQE algorithm was used in order to find the ground state of H2 molecule and its dissociation profile. Then the Adapt-VQE was used in order to find the ground state of LiH. 


 Then, the **Transverse field Ising model** was studied with this approach in different contexts. Codes and Images are reported in folders **TFIM**. 
 The initial state, where to apply all the possible fermionic operators, was defined randomly. Then the trial operators to be added where defined in the Operator pool and the one with the maximum lenght of the gradient was taken and added to the left of the trial state. It is possible to sample from the complete operator pool (65 operators) taking only some of them (Images/Random_state) and it is possible to add one single operator or combination of them (in our case 2 operators per time) at each step (Images/Combinations). In order to perform the optimization of the parameters, the Gradient Descent Optimizer and the Quantum Natural Gradient were used and their effect compared (Images/QNG_vs_GD). Different initializations were defined and it was possibleto define a statistic over them, taking the mean value and the corresponding variance; the process is not dependent on the intial configuration that may be chosen. The folder Programs/Plots contains the codes used in order to plot and to perform the statistics. 
 
In all the trials, the ground state of the Hamiltonian was approached buut some trials were more effective; we show that the effiency of the algorithm can be influenced by the number of operators that are available in order to build the anstaz state  (dimension of the operator pool) and that on average taking combinations of different operators can be more efficient. However, the final circuit depth is sometimes elevated for NISQ devices; in folder Images/Depth is reported how the depth of the circuit grows while approaching the ground state, adding more operators. 
